Chloe Lannert: So a few of you have asked how
Chloe Lannert: to think about like Linkedin and value creation. This is just like a micro example. But I've sent everyone who's asked. Mike's Linkedin, because it's just such a good example of how to reach and create value for an audience and generate trust.
Chloe Lannert: And I. It's Mike's 1 of my favorite. Linkedin follows. Because of this I learned something every time he posts
Chloe Lannert: and it's all really solid content. But, Mike, if you want to talk a little bit more about your background and your main focuses. Just primarily centered on growth. But this workshop is always a founder favorite, because it's so like it gets down to the philosophies of growth. And just how to think about it. Within your team. It's pillar, so like with all workshops, more questions you ask, the better it's going to be.
Chloe Lannert: and I'll hand over the torch.
Mike Rome: I appreciate the intro. It's gonna be tough to follow. I feel like the expectations are real high now. So yeah, I'll share my screen in a sec. What's up, everybody?
Mike Rome: And I'll give you the spiel on me. And
Mike Rome: yeah, we'll go through just just what I think are like the principles to hold near and dear as you guys are scaling, and none of them are rocket science. But I think which what you'll find and which property already found is, it's really hard to stay disciplined around this stuff when you're in it. So but even before I do that and give you the bio and start running through the things that growth wise. I wish you know, I learned a heck of a lot earlier to avoid some mistakes. Maybe I could just get like the 30 second spiel on companies, and
Mike Rome: I'll try to tailor things a little bit to that, and then I'll leave a bunch of I'll I'll fly through the deck pretty quickly. Just so we have a bunch of time for Q. And a. Because, honestly, that like this is for you guys. And I would rather just go deeper where you guys want to go. So is that cool? If we do like a quick, here's what we're doing.
Alex Nativelle: Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: Kick off, and I'll just call people
Chloe Lannert: how it looks like Alex, you wanna do a 30 second intro of what Bree is doing.
Alex Nativelle: Cool. Hey, Mike? Nice to meet you. My name is you, too.
Alex Nativelle: co-founder, and CEO of Brio. We're an AI powered interview coach that helps you train for job interviews with a personalized interactive interview. You get a feedback afterwards, and we are now live in France with more than 10 higher institutions. So we basically sell to higher institutions that now, after that offer the service to their students.
Mike Rome: Awesome nice to meet you.
Alex Nativelle: Yeah, I've been posting a little bit on Linkedin, so very interested for what's coming.
Mike Rome: Oh, nice! I don't get too much into it in the in this deck. I probably should update this deck. It's pretty timeless, but we can. We can go hard there with questions and stuff like that. So so save them.
Chloe Lannert: Should I pass it on, or
Chloe Lannert: I'm just gonna go across my screen, Carlo, can you hear me.
Carlo Scaglia: Yup. I can hear you. Hey, Mike? I'm Carlo. Is a global vetted network of the world's best photographers and video makers. But all of our younger generation with very deep passions, and through a platform we allow brands and agencies to custom, build like specialized production teams. Anyone in the world to shoot any kind of content very easily.
Carlo Scaglia: We work with a bunch of clients anything from like the big guys like Airbnb and Skyscanner to smaller companies, but also a lot with producers from agencies that have the green light on companies, and just need a hand to to do them and to shoot them.
Mike Rome: Very cool.
Carlo Scaglia: Great.
Meg Hall: Chloe. I don't I don't. I didn't hear who you said, did you?
Chloe Lannert: Is, and then a smile. Then Meg.
Vivian: Hi, Mike, I'm Vivian. I'm the CEO of May making auto easy. We're a in dealership sales enablement tool that matches customers to the right vehicles in their inventory. We're based in Canada. And we pilot with individual stores before we launch into their auto group. And we are just about to sign our 1st Enterprise auto group deal this week.
Mike Rome: Nice congrats. Nice to meet you.
Vivian: Too.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: Hello, Mike! My name is Esmail. From Optifab. Optifab, is making manufacturing simpler, faster, more traceable, and also affordable.
Mike Rome: Great nice to meet you.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: Nice to meet you.
Meg Hall: Hi, Mike, my name is Meghall. I'm the founder and CEO of Sales play X, and we help enterprise sales teams to win bigger deals. And we do this through AI account research and finding prospects, creating really personalized messaging, and then generating all the pieces of like sales documents throughout the sales cycle.
Mike Rome: Very cool. Nice to meet you.
Meg Hall: Nice to meet you.
Chloe Lannert: And then Michael is Meg's CTO.
Chloe Lannert: Anthony. Then Chris.
Anthony De Silva: Sure.
Anthony De Silva: Hey, Mike? Anthony, we're building the 1st property condition and valuation data platform. So we provide home inspections collect 400 plus data points at each home inspection. And we are leveraging that data for appraisals, eliminating the need for an onsite appraiser, saving time and money for homebuyers.
Mike Rome: Nice nice to meet you.
Anthony De Silva: Nice to meet you.
Chris Wong: Hey, Mike? Chris, CEO, co-founder of legalese we're selling to law firms, and what we're doing is streamlining the time tracking and invoicing generating process. So for lawyers, they spend about 12 HA month jotting down what they do and then putting it into their invoice. It's pretty detailed. So we're using AI to streamline that entire process. So they don't have to do that. Reduce it to about an hour a month.
Mike Rome: Awesome nice to meet you. I'm sure that they hate that, too. It's probably like the worst
Mike Rome: use of their time.
Chris Wong: Yeah, I used to be a lawyer. So I hate that. So the generation of that. Yeah.
Mike Rome: That's the best way to start something, man, solve your own problem.
Chris Wong: Cool. Nice to meet you.
Chloe Lannert: Good phase.
Chloe Lannert: And then Antoine works with Alex on Brio, and Mark is Chris's brother and CTO. And then, Trina, do you want to give a quick intro.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, she might be in transit. So we'll we'll just jump in.
Chloe Lannert: But Trina is working on trends. They're doing
Chloe Lannert: a listing of medical imaging data.
Mike Rome: Awesome, awesome. I just shot a request to share.
Chloe Lannert: Yes, just approved.
Mike Rome: Cool.
Mike Rome: All right.
Mike Rome: all right. Can you guys see my screen and a big giant slide that says, building a growth machine.
Chloe Lannert: The mountains are beautiful.
Mike Rome: Yeah, yeah, it'd be cool to go here. I wonder where it is?
Mike Rome: Okay, awesome. Awesome. Yeah. So I'm gonna talk to you guys a little bit about growth.
Mike Rome: you know, growth, I think, in startups is this, it's this like sexy, cool term. But I guess I'm here to hopefully not bring too much bad news, but I think it's often really boring when you do it right. And you know there's a lot of sort of shiny myths out there about growth, and I'd like to try to dispel one like I said to hopefully, save you guys a bunch of time. So
Mike Rome: a little bit about me. I am Mike, and I run 2 companies today. So the 1st one's called Moonwater, and there I just do startup growth advisory. So it's just me. I've been doing moonwater for about 3 and a half years. So before that I spent 10 plus years working my way up largely, venture backed startups at the intersection of marketing and product helping them grow. So you know, it's very much just an operator for companies like your guys and
Mike Rome: some companies that were a little bit further along. I mostly kind of worked on series A To post series C companies
Mike Rome: and I did a lot of consumer. I did did some b 2 b as well, though, and
Mike Rome: either way ads were oftentimes sort of the growth engine for the types of businesses I worked on for over a decade. And so, about a year and a half ago, I started my second company called Light Bulb, with my partner, Robbie, Jack
Mike Rome: and Robbie actually started scaled and sold a techstars company. And so they had a great product. But they really did it off the back of ads. And so we've known each other for years and kind of bonded over this idea of hey? The typical way that early to mid stage businesses run ads is quite broken. Most agencies are very broken. And so we were like, I think we can just build the agency together that we always wanted, but never could find as in-house operators. So I spend
Mike Rome: most of my time today, probably about 90 to 95% of my time on that second business running ads for early to mid stage companies with my partner, Robbie, but still do some light startup advisory. So
Mike Rome: yeah, I've spent 15 plus years doing the thing being in the trenches, being in the arena like you guys and mostly just helping scale 7 and 8 figure brands. I've advised a bunch of startups that have raised a lot of money. And then I love teaching about this stuff.
Mike Rome: It's the same reason I write about this stuff, obviously to like help and give back, but also to remind myself, because we're still in it. We're still scaling companies every day of some of these principles that, like, I said, are dead simple, but when you're executing it's really hard to stay the course. So that's a little bit about me. Candidly, that's just like a lot of fluff. I think the reason that you guys should listen to me is because I've made all the mistakes, or at least most of them. And you know, hopefully, I can save you guys some time.
Mike Rome: So like I said, I'm gonna fly through like, I think I got around 15 principles of just sort of high level principles that I hold close when I'm thinking about how to how to scale a business, you guys can like raise your hands or just yell at me. Say, like, Mike, stop, but I'll go through it pretty quick, and we can also do a bunch of Q&A at the end. But definitely like, don't
Mike Rome: feel bad about interrupting. This is for you guys. So yeah, just raise your hand or holler, or we can. We can riff at the end.
Mike Rome: So the 1st principle is this idea that that growth is optional. So I 1st heard this from, I think, who is now the Cmo of Facebook. He used to be the head of growth, and
Mike Rome: it really stuck with me, because, you know, I think one of the most important things to get get right about growth from the start is growing. Something new is hard.
Mike Rome: and I think that's an expectation like you should just always have. I think that the startups that don't make it oftentimes are surprised by the constant shitstorm that a startup is, and I think it goes a long way, just building a culture that sort of expects it right? Because even the best startups that's really
Mike Rome: the one thing the only thing you can count on. But even though growth is hard, I think, if you can make peace with the challenge and have the right expectations. The playbook for growth is pretty simple, and it's up to you if you choose to follow it. And so said, another way, I believe that that growth is optional. It really just comes down to. Yeah, can you stay the course around the principles when
Mike Rome: the going gets hard.
Mike Rome: So that's really what this 1st principle is about. I think some of the attributes of great growth cultures are companies that let small fires burn. It's 1 of my favorites again. Easier said than done. Everyone wants to say they let small fires burn, but I'm sure you guys have always been there. You want to fix every little thing you can, and oftentimes the perfects, the enemy of good enough, and I think the reality is is whether you're a pre-seed startup or you're a post series. C or D startup
Mike Rome: resources are always constrained. And so you're never going to be able to do everything, and you should really embrace this idea of not doing certain things and saying no way more than you say. Yes. Another thing I'm going to talk about is just like the cross functional nature of growth. So I come into a lot of companies. And you know, marketing is the growth engine, or maybe some subset of marketing content ads, whatever. Or maybe it's a product led growth company, where product is the growth engine.
Mike Rome: or, you know a couple of you guys mentioned you're selling to Enterprise. Maybe you're like a sales led organization. And candidly, I don't like any of those terms, because I think the best teams are. Growth is is really everyone's job until you maybe have 50 plus employees. And
Mike Rome: I think the reality is is, if you talk about sales led growth or marketing led growth or product led growth. You risk kind of demoralizing the other people who aren't part of that.
Mike Rome: And it's also just an underutilized way to try to scale your business. So that's another one. A lot of these principles come down to process over tactics. I know it's tempting to pull up your Twitter feed, or Linkedin feed. And someone's talking about the latest and greatest thing. Maybe it's me. And you're kind of like, you know, you kind of just do
Mike Rome: whatever the new thing is. Whoever's screaming the loudest right? You kind of take that thing and ultimately end up throwing a lot at the wall in terms of tactics, and there's a process for growth. And you want to make sure that you don't put like the tactics
Mike Rome: before the process. Right, the cart before the horse, ruthless prioritization and incredible bias for action. So again, I talked about this idea of the power of just saying no way more than you say yes. And then, you know, when in doubt do so, that's kind of the high level ideas behind growth being optional.
Mike Rome: Yeah, I love. Go ahead.
Chloe Lannert: Question, quick chat, question, optional, as in you need to opt in, or it won't happen, or optional, as in. You don't have to grow to live.
Mike Rome: Well, so that's an interesting point. I would say. The 1st one, for sure.
Mike Rome: The second one, you know.
Mike Rome: Do you have to grow to live.
Mike Rome: in my business light bulb. We work with about half venture backed businesses and half bootstrap businesses, and some of the venture backed businesses are trying to become multi 1 billion dollar businesses, and some of them are like, Hey, we wanted to raise a 1 and done round. That's largely what my partner Robbie did. They raised about 2 million bucks and sold the business for 40 million, plus
Mike Rome: 4 or 5 years later, and the company, excluding investors still own the majority of the business. That was a pretty good thing for him. So this kind of depends, and we try. We are big believers in profitable growth. I think, whether you want to be a massive, massive business, or, you know, maybe a successful business where you have more freedom. But you don't take it on as many investors and all that stuff
Mike Rome: that's sort of your choice. And there's pros and cons to each road. I think it's just really important to be like vividly aware of what those are. But either way, I think you want to make sure that you're growing in a sustainable way, and that's what a lot of these principles are about.
antoinecarriere: Yeah, it's it's it's awesome and and sorry for for doubling down on that question. Mike, I I just want to understand, because
antoinecarriere: because you talked about myth earlier. There's kind of one way of looking at it that your principles are really myth, that you're trying to dispel, and that
antoinecarriere: one, miss, is that growth is optional, and in fact, it's not so. That's 1 way of reading it. But then, as you were kind of going over that principle. It felt to me that. No, it's a deeply held principle you have that is that you've you've gone. Growth is optional. And so I'm trying to kind of
antoinecarriere: get into your what? What is it? Is it kind of?
antoinecarriere: Because and and and the the cognitive dissonance for me at least, maybe it's a language thing is
antoinecarriere: the the whole like, hey? It's like water to me. Water is like it's really important whether, if you if you so, it's not optional, you know. Growth is not optional and and so I'm I'm and I'm still struggling to understand what you what you mean. Why, you chose these words, like growth, is optional, and.
Mike Rome: Totally totally so in the context of a venture-backed, startup growth is not optional. What I'm saying is
Mike Rome: whether you grow or not is a choice.
Mike Rome: and that choice comes down to a series of habits and principles that you need to hold close. Now, depending on the type of business you want to be right and your ambition around how many rounds you're going to raise? Or if you're ever going to raise after this the sort of scale of growth that you need
Mike Rome: is to be determined. But what I'm saying is, yeah, for venture backed startups largely, growth is water. It's oxygen, right? But what I'm saying is, in order to get there. Yeah, it's a choice. You can either follow these principles or you can avoid them, in which case I would argue, it's not going to end as well.
antoinecarriere: Awesome. Thank you. Sorry for the long.
Mike Rome: No, no, that's what this is for. This is exactly what you guys should be doing. So principle number 2, you know, startups. They don't take off founders and early stage teams. They make them take off. So I love Paul Graham. I'm sure a lot of you guys have read Paul Graham. One thing I would say is, beware of reading too much. Find like the circle of people you really believe in, because they've done some stuff.
Mike Rome: and you just really subscribe to their worldview. So Pg is one of those people for me. But you know, I'll warn you guys there's so much noise out there right? Like, maybe maybe this is noise for you. I think you guys have to decide. There's so many people who've had a little bit of success with early stage businesses, and because of it, they, you know, feel entitled to have an opinion, and you know.
Mike Rome: at the end of the day, like some of those opinions are right and some of them are wrong. And so it's really important to kind of figure out, you know. Who do you want to follow. And who do you want to believe? And ultimately you can get inundated by that stuff if you kind of subscribe to too many people. And so, you know, there's probably like 5 to 7 people that I read very regularly in the business space, and outside of that I just kind of put my heads down and ignore the rest, because otherwise it would cloud judgment, you know. Like, if you kind of
Mike Rome: subscribe to too many belief systems there, all of a sudden you get conflicting results. And this advice and this wisdom, it sort of clouds judgment instead of informs. And anyway, one of the things that Paul Graham says is that startups don't take off founders, make them take off. And I think when I think about sort of like
Mike Rome: the cornerstone of a great early stage growth culture. I think about this idea of how startups don't take off like the people within them make that happen. And so, you know, there's a bunch of examples here on the slide.
Mike Rome: Some of my favorite Ben
Mike Rome: Silberman, the founder of Pinterest, he used to go into apple stores in the early days of pinterest, and he would go in and he would open a macbook, and he would reset the browser's home screen to pinterest right instead of Google, or something like that, and he would wait for people to come in and open that macbook because they were thinking about buying it. And then all of a sudden they would click the Internet, and they would go to pinterest homepage. And he would just kind of like, go over and watch and observe and
Mike Rome: effectively like, be doing user testing out of the apple store. And you know, you think about a company like that that's, you know, just scaled to a really crazy level.
Mike Rome: You don't hear about those stories. Another one that I love is Airbnb and Brian Chesky and Joe. These guys were these guys were designers. Right. That's 1 of the reasons. It was such an important company for Silicon Valley startups. Historically, a lot of the companies that have been successful have been founded by developers. Airbnb is another wildly successful company. But
Mike Rome: you know, in the early days like these guys realized that we have to take photos ourselves, this whole idea of getting someone to stay with somebody else or in somebody else's house before Airbnb existed. Right? If you pitched that idea or someone pitched it to you, said, Hey, you're going to New York City like, Go stay with this guy in his apartment. You would say, No, thanks. I don't want to get murdered
Mike Rome: right? And that's what these guys were up against. Right? They had to like, really change behavior. And so because they were classically trained designers with really strong aesthetic. They went in and shot the photos of these places to kind of overcome that fear, right and build trust and credibility for a fundamentally new behavior, and that whole idea of like professionally driven
Mike Rome: like photography, rich photos being so foundational to being able to make that marketplace work never would have happened unless they just did the thing themselves right. There's a bunch of other examples on here. But I think the best thing you guys can do right now is, if you're doing really gritty things to grow, and you're kind of instilling that in your team.
Mike Rome: You're probably on the right path. That sort of a level of grit and persistence is really helpful for a culture. And by the way, growth is really a combination of hard skills and soft skills, we're going to talk about the hard skills and some of these other slides. Growth loops math all of that good stuff.
Mike Rome: But growth is just as much about the soft skills. And, you know, building a really resilient culture, right? A culture that takes bad news. Well, a culture that expects hard things, all of that good stuff, a culture that is accustomed to just grinding it out and willing things into existence. That's a really important principle and thing that you want to make sure you get right from the start.
Mike Rome: All right. Principle number 3. Sustainable growth means mastering scale and unit economics. Right? So there's this idea of scale, right, the potential for customers. And then there's this idea of unit economics like the cost to acquire them versus the money that you make off of those people. And there's a lot of startups out there, especially in the venture backed world that are good at one particularly scale.
Mike Rome: But scale doesn't really matter unless you've actually figured out the unit economics. A lot of startups get into a lot of trouble this way, right? They show really strong growth.
Mike Rome: But the paybacks aren't there? And ultimately it doesn't end well for the founder, the team, the investors, and all of that good stuff. And so I think when people say growth. They immediately think about things like scaling.
Mike Rome: When I say growth, I think about the idea of scaling and unit economics. Equally so, if it's not a profitable way to grow. I'm not very interested in it. It's really easy to do one of these things scale aggressively or have really good unit economics. The best teams figure out a way to do both.
Mike Rome: So one of my favorite reads, oh, go ahead, Anthony.
Mike Rome: and if I don't see questions just like, just unmute yourself, because I see like 5 people screens. So
Mike Rome: got it. Got it. Sorry about that.
Mike Rome: You're all good.
Anthony De Silva: Yeah, no. I just was wondering. So like you mentioned unit economics at what point in a startup, I know, like, we're pretty early in in our days.
Anthony De Silva: At what point have you seen that becoming like a metric that people or like investors and Vcs like track? Or is is it okay for us to
Anthony De Silva: have unit economics at this stage that don't make sense. But there is a plan for for it to get better, like as we evolve
Anthony De Silva: more customers in the door. Right? So it's, I'm thinking. You know, we we like pay for leads or pay for acquisition. It might not make sense right now, but in in the future, you know, there is a way to figure it out.
Mike Rome: Yeah. So I would say a couple of things there. One in theory. That's okay. I think a lot of startups use it as a crutch for just maybe not being brutally honest about the business. And I'm not saying this is you right? Like you are very early, but what you wouldn't want to happen is to say, Hey, we need to get more people in the door now, and once we reach some sort of economies of scale, this thing will make sense, and you ultimately, like, keep kicking the can down the road on that
Mike Rome: rather than at some point. Having this hard conversation of saying, Hey, we've gotten a lot of people in the door, but the math isn't working.
Mike Rome: In other words, like the product isn't good enough right? It's probably not retaining at the rate it needs to for you guys to justify the acquisition strategy that you've figured out. So you know I would say that. Yes, I oftentimes am working on later stage companies than this cohort. So it's okay to say that. But I would also really encourage you to be like brutally honest throughout the process of like, are you truly getting closer to that thing? Right? Is the product good enough?
Mike Rome: And as long as you do that, you know, then that's okay. Does that make sense? Anthony?
Anthony De Silva: Yeah, yeah.
Mike Rome: The other thing I would say, there is. Yeah, some of these principles. I think the instinct might be. Oh, we're too early for that. And so for this one, I would just say you have to think about it a little differently. So if you're very early on, you're not going to know the unit economics. You don't have enough reps. You don't have enough customers to figure that out, but what you could know is you could try 3 to 5 different acquisition strategies, right? And you could execute them very thoughtfully.
Mike Rome: And you could figure out what are the unit economics relative to one another?
Mike Rome: Right? So like, maybe you know, let's just say I'm trying to keep things super simple. Let's just say, like, ultimately, you need to acquire a customer for $100, and you know you just need more reps to figure out if you're going to do that. Well, if you employ 3 to 5 different acquisition strategies to find customers right. And let's say one of them comes in at $200, and one of them comes in at $500, and one of them comes in at $1,200, and another one comes in at $1,500. That's interesting, right? Like all of a sudden, you know, like 2 of these seem like they
Mike Rome: could carry much more weight than the other 2. And so, if I was looking to invest in a business like that's the type of early stage math that I would be interested in, like you don't have to have all the answers. No one expects you to. Right like you're on this quest that's going to be long and hard to figure it out. But are you making clear progress on that quest. And so I love the idea of planting seeds and looking at them relative to one another, to figure out, you know, where? Where do you really need to focus. And what can you maybe say no to, for now.
Anthony De Silva: Got it.
Anthony De Silva: Thank you.
Mike Rome: No problem.
Mike Rome: So these next 2 slides, you guys can read a little bit more about this. I'll make sure the team has the deck after this, and you guys can go through it. There's a handful of links I have in the deck like I skipped over the one in here. But I love this bill, Gurley, podcast on business and investing. He's 1 of my favorite investors. If you're into this idea, I would definitely check out that podcast this is a really cool book that talks about great frameworks for customer acquisition.
Mike Rome: So if this slide really speaks to you, maybe take a look at that another link in here around how paid acquisition is totally okay. I have a whole agency. We do that for a living, but it also can be kind of a drug, and you should be mindful of sort of the downside of it. So anyway, I've just got some links in here, and these next 2 slides. I have a link to this 5 part blog Post series from social capital.
Mike Rome: Chamath Palihapatiya. He started social capital. He was like the guy who started the growth team at Facebook, paid a bunch of money, ended up starting a Vc. Firm. And one of the things they did that was really cool is, they open, sourced a lot of how they do diligence. And they had this 5 part series. I think it's just called diligence at social capital. It links links to it here. You could probably just Google that.
Mike Rome: And they basically make the argument that there's some part of diligence that's not measurable. Right? Like the people, the team, the attributes stuff like that. But then there is a part of diligence that's incredibly measurable, and this whole series goes through like the 5 components that they look at.
Mike Rome: And it's 1 of my favorite reads because it really keeps you honest about this idea of like, are you on the right path to achieving product market fit. Are you ready to scale? And they have this concept called a quick ratio. And I think it's the most important formula for growth, and so depending on. If you're a consumer business or you're a b 2 b business and depending on if you're like B, 2 B Smb Sas, or like enterprise.
Mike Rome: What your quick ratio target should be is different. But the general concept is, if you take like, let's say, an active customer. There's inputs to an active customer, right? So I'm keeping things simple. And this just shows, like the consumer view of this, because it's a little bit easier to measure than the other 2. But if you guys just click on
Mike Rome: this 5 part series, the second one talks about how you would measure the same thing, the quick ratio for a b 2 b business. The whole idea, though the high level idea for both right, regardless of what type of business you are is. Let's say you have an active customer.
Mike Rome: and there's a lot of people who show like an active customer graph, growing right? Or maybe this is monthly recurring revenue. For like a Saas based business. And they show like this, this top line output style metric.
Mike Rome: And what the social capital guys talk about is whatever this top line thing is for you, right? Total actives, total revenue whatever there's inputs to it. That kind of tell the story to how healthy the growth is. So in this specific example, for, like a consumer business, let's say you're looking at active customers. There's 3 types of customers. So let's say you come in in May. Right? It's may right. Now, if you come in for the 1st time in May. By definition, you're a new customer. Okay.
Mike Rome: if you
Mike Rome: are an active customer in May. You were not an active customer in April, but you were an active customer in some preceding month before April.
Mike Rome: and you're active in May, then you're a reactivated customer, right? So we're talking about all of the active customers from May, and they have to fall into one of these 3 buckets. So there's new, there's reactivated. And then there's retained. So if you're active in May, and you were also active in the immediate preceding period. April. Then you're a repeat customer. Okay? So by definition, if we're looking at, you know.
Mike Rome: total revenue for a month or total actives in a month, you have to fall into one of those 3 buckets. There are 3 mutually exclusive buckets, and I won't spend too much time here. But basically you can fake growth really easily. Right? You can show one of these top line graphs that show
Mike Rome: revenue or active customers growing at a really impressive clip.
Mike Rome: But what's driving that growth is really really important. Ultimately, you want a lot of that growth to be driven by retention, right? Like, even if you have a large Tam, if most of it is being driven by new over time, you essentially are marketing something
Mike Rome: that people want, but the product hasn't followed through right. And so the only way you can actually continue to grow is by acquiring more people. That's bad. And so what these 2 graphs basically show is, I was looking at 2 companies that both had a compound monthly growth rate on total actives of 10% month over month. That's pretty good, right? But one of these companies
Mike Rome: was effectively, you know.
Mike Rome: growing because they were just really good at acquiring customers. But they weren't retaining them right. What these top and bottom line show is that for all of the customers that they were essentially acquiring, they were almost churning customers at the same rate. And so, in other words, this quick ratio graph, the sort of contributions to growth.
Mike Rome: the positive and negative contributions to growth mirrored each other right? And then there's a graph like this where a lot of the growth is driven by this idea of retention. And so it has a much higher quick ratio. So this is a really important concept in growth of, okay.
Mike Rome: we can think about top line in the context of any business. But you really got to understand the inputs that are driving that top line. Because depending on what's happening with those inputs, that sort of dictates. If you're really ready to scale or not, if retention is not there, you got to rework the product. You got to like talk to users and really figure out what's not right. People are coming, but they're not staying. And if you try to scale before you've actually figured that out. That's when you can get into real trouble from an investor backed business standpoint.
Mike Rome: This sounds obvious. It happens all the time.
Mike Rome: Alex. What do you got.
Alex Nativelle: Yeah, I think this is very interesting that you've
Alex Nativelle: added the reactivated part, which is something we don't often hear about. And my, so I'm thinking about for my business. Right? People train for job interviews. Then, once they have that job right, they will churn. It's not a question of whether or not. They like the product. Whether it's good. It's that I don't need this anymore. But what we're hoping to do is to reactivate them right? A lot of the time. So my question was like
Alex Nativelle: you were saying, reactivated is like per month. Is it always has to be per month, and then how you account for like reactivated because you said you have to optimize for retention. That's what I've heard from from you, right? But like, how do you think about those things, for like a different type of business, maybe it's not a month on month, but you know.
Mike Rome: For sure, for sure. So a few things there's always exceptions to the rule. I would say that the other thing I would say, though, is. Yeah, repeat context matters right? So if you're a social app, you might be looking for daily actives for someone like you, you know, it might be like a 2 to 3 year reactivation. And so that context is really important. Now, this is somewhere, too, where, like you have to kind of figure out.
Mike Rome: Do I trust Mike's worldview, or do I not think it applies to my business? And you know one thing I would kind of say to you just because
Mike Rome: I have just seen
Mike Rome: businesses that have really healthy retention. And it's it's just easier. I would kind of challenge you guys to figure out, is is there some sort of adjacent product for you guys to upsell once somebody gets a job
Mike Rome: right? And so on the one side, it's like, then you lose focus right? Which is bad. And you don't want to spread product too thin. But on the other side, like you're trying to solve the retention problem. And so I would kind of come at this 2 ways by saying, like, Yeah, of course, like some sometimes, you know, like I was thinking of, I was talking to a company who does like
Mike Rome: Hr. Expensing the other day like people don't go in every day to expense stuff. It's usually like a 1 time a month endeavor. And so for that company. If I was looking at reactivation, I would be looking at it over a different cadence, right? I think, where it gets hard is when you get to these businesses, where you know. But the flip side of what you're doing is like the tam is incredibly large. Right? So so you could make this argument that, like
Mike Rome: the tam, is just so big that we are okay with someone who uses the product twice over a 3 year period. That's a little bit of a question where I would honestly say you should
Mike Rome: go talk to people who like very regularly work on those types of businesses. I haven't worked on a lot of those businesses, but those businesses are out there and people have made them work. And so, you know, I think a big part about growth in general is like steady history. Find the people who've already done the thing that you're trying to do, and just go like hang out with them right to just ultimately try to figure out how to move faster.
Mike Rome: So I think that's a little bit of a unique business. Hopefully, I gave you a few tidbits that are helpful. But I also think, like, go find mentors and people who have scaled these types of businesses successfully, and ask them that question, because their answer is probably a lot better than mine.
Alex Nativelle: Yeah, no, thanks. It's very useful for us to to hear, and how you're thinking about this. So that's great.
Mike Rome: Cool. Yeah, so this is sort of same same idea. Here. I would really go. Read this 5 part series, diligence at social capital. The high level idea is, it's very easy to show a top line growth chart. But then, when you ask the question, what's driving the growth? Is it people that are just recently coming in? Or is it people who've been around the product for a while? You can have the same top line growth? It can look really good. But you can have 2 companies that tell a very different story based on who's driving that growth.
Mike Rome: And it's something you should always kind of have a pulse on as a business.
Mike Rome: So here's 1 that we kind of kind of alluded to a little bit
Mike Rome: principle. 6. Marketing's purpose pre and post product fit are different. So you know, there's a fair amount of companies out there that will raise a few 1 million bucks, and they'll try to start scaling, and the reason they try to start scaling is because they've been given a lot of capital.
Mike Rome: and you sort of have a responsibility as a business to put that capital to work. And that's what a Vc. Typically on average wants, right? Like they're trying to deploy funds quickly to figure out where they should put more of their funds. So this is kind of an example of where venture capital interests and founder interests aren't always aligned. It might not be the best thing for you to spend that money really quickly. And so the way that I think about marketing Pre and post product market fit is very different.
Mike Rome: The product really isn't working yet, or you don't know if it's working. If you're not, you know, if you're not doing measurement, if you're doing measurements like this. And you're trying to understand how you're growing. And if it's coming from people sticking around or new people, let's say it's coming from people who are new and people aren't sticking around. In other words, you have a churn problem to me. The only mark you don't have product market fit. Okay? If your quick ratio is not good, there's a lot of people out there
Mike Rome: say, like product market fit. Is this like nebulous term? I actually think it's like wildly measurable, and the way that I would recommend measuring it was by the reading the series that I just talked about on the last 2 slides. If you don't have product market fit, it's really hard. That's okay, right? It doesn't mean you don't have a successful business like it's like one of the hardest things to figure out. But if I were in those shoes then I wouldn't be doing marketing to scale. I would just be doing marketing to bring enough
Mike Rome: people in the door to figure out what's wrong with the product, and then I would get to work, go heads down on iterating on the product, and then I would spend a little bit more money on marketing to bring more people in to see if anything's changed right. We made these changes.
Mike Rome: We brought enough people in. They're churning from the product. We spent marketing dollars on that. That's okay. If we went and talked to them and figured out, hey, you wanted to use this thing. You tried this thing, but you didn't stay around, and you figured out why, right? And all of a sudden, like 2 features that you have like that you need to have become glaringly obvious. That's a really great use of marketing spend to bring customers in the door in order to be able to do like research to figure out like, why they're staying or why they're not to solidify better product. Okay.
Mike Rome: once you get to this point of like you're retaining customers. It's different. Marketing's purpose is different. You can scale right once the quick ratio is in like a healthy spot, you can try to really, aggressively pour fuel on that. So again, this is one of those things that sounds obvious, but it gets really hard when you're in it. I mean, I know lots of companies who show impressive top line charts, and
Mike Rome: but they have a really leaky bucket, and there's this temptation to just keep spending money to keep showing that top line growth. But, like ultimately, what you should do is stop spending money, and you should fix the product. The best investors know this. A lot of this advice, too, with sort of the change in the macro environment in the last couple of years it's become more commonplace. But you got to keep in mind, like economics are cycles.
Mike Rome: And so we will come back to this cycle where money is just cheaper and people are a little bit more okay with the idea of growth at all costs.
Mike Rome: Now there's a little bit more of a conservative view right in venture backed startups, but that always changes. I've been doing this for 15 years, and so I would sort of argue, regardless of where we are in one of these cycles. It's always something that as a founder and early team you want to be really mindful of in order to like maximize the capital that you take
Mike Rome: a strong marketing mix has awareness, consideration, and conversion. So yeah, here's the thing. Once you are ready to scale, there's sort of lower hanging fruit to scaling than others. Slinging ads may be one of those, and you should do it because you have to grow. Now, once you've validated product market fit, and you're on the clock to scale. You need to grow now.
Mike Rome: but the best startups believe in the hedge right? They're constantly planting short medium and long term bets, and if all you're doing is leaning into these short term tactics, right? These things that pay off right away like potentially paid acquisition. And you're not planting seeds around content, or some of these other strategies that might take.
Mike Rome: you know, 6 months a year, 2 years to pay off
Mike Rome: all of the sudden that short term tactic. It's going to saturate at some point, and the whole name of the game is that you're focused on the things that are driving most of your growth.
Mike Rome: But you're reserving a small subset of your time to basically say, Hey, this thing's going away. We need to continuously plant seeds in other areas as well. The fine line here is you want to be doubling down on what's working. But you also want to have this chip on your shoulder, saying, this thing's going to go away, and if we don't plant these other seeds around growth for some of these things that are harder, that might take more time. We're never going to be able to build like a predictable repeatable engine for growth.
Mike Rome: And ultimately, that's what you're going for. You're going for that flywheel. And so this whole idea of a strong marketing mix being a combination of different types of marketing, it really just means this idea of like great marketing is a constant hedge, right? You have ways to grow tomorrow today, and you're constantly planting seeds to figure out ways to grow tomorrow. But you're mostly focused on the things that are working now, because it's really hard to find stuff that works when you're digging for gold and find it. You keep digging
Mike Rome: alright. I talked about this one, too. You don't need a growth team, the whole growth team. Go ahead.
Chloe Lannert: We jump over chat question, how do you balance the do things that like this with the principle of like doing things that don't scale to test things before you commit.
Mike Rome: So can you can guys whoever asked it? Could you elaborate a little bit.
Carlo Scaglia: Yeah. That was.
Mike Rome: Make sure, understand the question.
Carlo Scaglia: So I think with that it's stage startups are often told. I do things that don't scale like a bit more of a manual thing. And that way you get like a sense check of what can work and what doesn't work. And you get quite a lot of information before you double down on certain things, and I think with ads was coming from that industry, like I understand how easy it is to get lost in them or try them or spend too much. So how can you do sort of a controlled
Carlo Scaglia: test right? Like
Carlo Scaglia: again, with the things that don't scale? Maybe a bit more manual before you start, having, like an iterative ad system that you don't really have to stay behind every day, and, you know, pulls in X amount of money for every ad spend.
Mike Rome: Yeah. So the question like, sorry. I just wanna make sure I'm understanding it like, How do you do both? Concurrently or not? Not exactly.
Carlo Scaglia: Yes, exactly. How do you do? Both concurrently, but also, how can you use the things that don't scale? The more manual approaches to then like.
Carlo Scaglia: create the things that do scale. I don't know if.
Mike Rome: Yeah, I think that's exactly why you do the things that don't scale right to ultimately figure out, how do you scale the business like, go back to the the Airbnb like
Mike Rome: The airbnb example of those guys like really taking the time to take professional photographs like, unless they did that themselves they wouldn't have had that insight. And then, like, ultimately, they had to go back, you know, once they figured out that was sort of like the magic moment to get someone to change behavior right and do this thing that was fundamentally different than
Mike Rome: anyone had ever done back in. Let's call it 2,009, or whenever
Mike Rome: once they had that insight. Right? They said, Okay, how do we actually like build a product to scale the thing? So these 2 things like oftentimes work in harmony. Right? I think the biggest thing here outside of like
Mike Rome: doing both. And you know, really having this top of mind, like the one thing, feeds the other right like, take the pinterest example, like he did that user testing to ultimately figure out the optimal onboarding for the for the product, which was a problem they could solve at scale with like designers and engineers. Right? And so these things go. They very much go hand in hand. The one thing I would caution you guys on is
Mike Rome: as you scale. As your business becomes more successful, it gets really easy to get away from the customer, and so I would find ways to constantly stay close to the customer. So I worked on a product for a year and a half
Mike Rome: called 1440, and it's a newsletter for unbiased news, and I ran growth for them. It's an awesome little business that is really like a mushroom growing in the dark. So they have 5 million, almost 5 million daily readers. And all it is is a daily newsletter for unbiased news. And it's pretty wild. They're they're sort of political affiliations for people who read the newsletter. It's wild. It's like 30%, them 35%
Mike Rome: Republican. And like 32 and a half percent or 33% independent like, it's like, remarkable how good the product actually is. This company is making over a million dollars in revenue per employee. By all accounts it's a very successful business.
Mike Rome: The CEO's inbox is still customer support.
Mike Rome: as of a year ago. That was true. Okay, this business is 8 years old. Maybe it's changed since then, but as of a year ago, he literally still fielded every customer support email. And so that's an extreme example. Right like, that's a that's a pretty polarizing view. There's a lot of people who would say, Hey, it's a much better use of a founder's time not to be doing customer support, as the business is scaling right. But what I would argue is, there's
Mike Rome: there's something in there right, and maybe it isn't. You're answering all the support. Maybe it's just for 2 h, one day a week. You're doing support right stuff like that. Or, you know, when people start at a company making them do customer support, or having a pop up in your ui, that says, how can we make this product better for you and all of a sudden it just like it pings to an inbox that the founder and
Mike Rome: certain growth teams have access to like. These are ways as you scale, it gets harder. But there's ways you can sort of automate
Mike Rome: staying close to the customer, right? And I've seen a lot of companies, and I've I've made this mistake, too, as you grow, and you become more successful. Yeah, there's just this tendency to solve these problems like in conference rooms around. Zoom calls. And
Mike Rome: oftentimes the people in there like they're not the customer anymore. I know a lot of you guys are probably solving your own problem, which is wonderful. But at some point you get to a scale where that's not true for everyone on the team.
Mike Rome: And so in those situations like, I always say, maybe we just need to get outside. Maybe we just need to go do some user testing. Let's just go talk to the people who use the thing, and I have this line that I say to teams sometimes where it's like I talked to customers, and it wasn't helpful, said no one ever. There's literally never been a time where I've done that exercise in some capacity.
Mike Rome: I don't care if the company was
Mike Rome: seed or series d where it wasn't worth the hour or 2 h or 4 h that we put into it. So I'm rambling now because I get excited about this. I think it's an edge. I think a lot of companies get lazy, and they don't stay close to the customer as they scale. This is another reason why you just have to be really comfortable with brutal honesty. Oftentimes you're going to hear stuff you don't want to hear. But the best thing to hear is, I love this thing
Mike Rome: working, and the numbers follow that right? They're tracking with what someone's saying people are retaining. The next best thing to hear is this thing is definitively not working and figure out why?
Mike Rome: Right? So you can just like move on to the next thing. Solve that problem. So yeah, you definitely can do both these things in parallel. It's not like a
Mike Rome: a 1 or the other. They they oftentimes feed, feed each other
Mike Rome: time. Here. Okay, cool. I'm gonna try to wrap this up in. It's called 10 min, and then, you know, I can hang for questions for like 20 min, or something like that. Does that sound good for everyone
Mike Rome: awesome. So talk about this. There's this term called the growth team. A lot of you have probably heard of it. I don't like the idea of a growth team. I think the whole company should be the growth team. And that's the culture that you really want to build. If one team is really focused on growth.
Mike Rome: It can be demoralizing to that team because they just feel the weight of the company on their backs. And it's also demoralizing to the people who aren't part of that team because they feel like their skills are underutilized. And so you know, I keep things pretty simple. There's 3 ways. Companies typically grow marketing sales and product.
Mike Rome: And I haven't found a company to this day where there's not a way for each of those teams to materially impact growth. Now.
Mike Rome: your product, if you're a product Led growth company, that team might be twice the size or 3 times the size of your marketing and sales team. But that doesn't mean there aren't growth opportunities within them. So, to be clear, I'm not saying growth should be
Mike Rome: equally split. A 3, rd a 3rd and a 3rd across these businesses. I just think, if you're not applying the whole team's skill sets to growth many of the best product and marketing growth ideas I've ever had had been because I had a direct line to customer support, and I would meet with people who are on the ground talking to the customer every single day.
Mike Rome: and all we did was like implement. The thing that they told us to do. And that's a great example of how like. Sometimes the best product ideas, you know, come from like your least experienced customer, support person. And so growth is all around you. And you just want to make sure you build a culture for that.
Mike Rome: 4 stages of growth make something enough people want will pay for once you do that, you can hypothesize models for growth which I'm going to get into some of my favorite ways to do. The key thing here is if you haven't made something enough people want. You're not ready to scale. I've said this probably 40 times right now. You guys would probably like throw something at me if I was in the room. But it's a really important lesson that really is easy to kind of misstep on. So once you hypothesize models for growth.
Mike Rome: basically, at that point, it's all about testing quickly. And the reason that testing quickly is so important is because that's how you learn the best startups, the best cultures. They just learn faster than everyone else, and the way that they learn faster than everyone else is that they execute faster than everyone else. Going back to this initial slide I had around this like incredible bias for action.
Mike Rome: So when it comes to ways that you can think about scaling your business, I would encourage you guys to check out
Mike Rome: these 4 methods. There's other methods, too, to grow businesses, but these are some of my favorite. So the 1st one is just sort of the classic funnel framework. Some people call this startup metrics for pirates because of the acronym Aarr. It sounds like a pirate. It just stands for acquisition, activation retention revenue and referral. So acquisition is, how do we get people to this thing that we've built activation? How do we get them to actually do what we want
Mike Rome: retention. How do we get them to continue to do what we want revenue? How do we get them to engage in some sort of monetization behavior. And then referral, how do we get them to have such a great, amazing experience with this product that they become the marketers for us? And so it's just a nice framework to kind of think through as a company. Are we planting seeds across all 5 of those levers? That's sort of an older school model growth loops would be a newer school model. Growth. Loops are wonderful.
Mike Rome: It's a way to grow exponentially, but they don't really fit every type of business. So I'd encourage you guys to to read about them.
Mike Rome: If you are really into this idea of growing in a product. 1st way, the product led growth. Flywheel is another one that's worth talking about. I'm sure everyone on this call has heard of network effects, and the whole idea of like the product gets better, the more people use it. That build early podcast is a wonderful lesson on network effects. So I think it's important just to get acclimated with the different models for growth. So you can kind of think through when your business is ready for scale.
Mike Rome: which model makes the most sense for your business, and then you can kind of hold the team accountable to like. Are we kind of planting seeds across the full framework to really figure this thing out.
Mike Rome: The best way to build and execute a growth roadmap, I think, is this idea of ice scoring every single opportunity that you have. So ice is just an acronym for impact confidence and ease. So
Mike Rome: you know, let's say you're using that funnel framework acquisition, activation, retention, revenue and referral to figure out how to scale your business, your past product market fit, ready to go, and you come up with 10 acquisition, ideas, 10 activation ideas, 10 retention, ideas, 10 revenue ideas, and so on. The next thing you do, you've got 40 or 50 ideas, things you could potentially execute on. It's very easy to be busy in a startup right? Like the easiest thing in the world is to be busy in a startup.
Mike Rome: But it doesn't mean anything, you know. I think a lot of startups wear busy as a badge of honor, and I don't think that's good for your culture, and it's certainly not good for growth.
Mike Rome: You want to ruthlessly prioritize. So my favorite way to prioritize is a framework like ice. There's other frameworks out there.
Mike Rome: I would just like figure out the one that speaks to you and use that. So
Mike Rome: for ice in that context of, we've got 40 or 50 ideas to really execute across this funnel to figure out how we grow, what you want to ask the questions, the 3 questions you want to ask for each idea is, if this thing worked, how much would it improve revenue, right? Customers, retention. So on. That's like the impact question. There's this next question of confidence. Okay, it's great. If there's an idea in there that's like really high impact if you pull it off.
Mike Rome: But if you guys don't have high confidence in that idea right? Like, maybe if you look at comps in your space. No one's ever really grown that way. You've got some like secondary research that just suggests this is a real stretch. It's going to have low confidence. Right? So you might not do that first, st even if it's high impact. Because, like, you just don't really have any good evidence whether it's your internal data or external data that you can figure this out. And then the last thing is ease, right? Like, what's the level of effort to actually put this thing into the world to test it.
Mike Rome: And so those are sort of the 3 criteria for essentially figuring out what you should do first.st
Mike Rome: In the earliest days I would recommend that you always wait ease
Mike Rome: more more than the other 2. 1st of all, it's all a guess, right? Like you're guessing on impact. You're guessing on confidence. Hopefully, you have some data like I alluded to to make your guess somewhat thoughtful. But the reason that I wait ease more in the scoring of these 3 things is going back to that whole idea of like the best teams win because of velocity and moving faster. And that works, because the faster you move, the faster you learn, and the faster you learn.
Mike Rome: the faster you come up with better ideas to test next. So whenever I'm going through this ice framework, at least in the early days, I'm always waiting, ease the most. And then, as the business scales, they become more so equal parts.
Mike Rome: So I just talked about this. But velocity is the number one input for a faster path to growth. So you really want to like.
Mike Rome: figure out a way to move quickly and again. Don't conflate, moving quickly with being busy right? There's lots of teams that are being busy, but they're kind of just going halfway on 50 different things. And then ultimately, they've half asked 50 things. And so you don't really know if they worked or not, because you didn't give it a fair shot. And so I like this idea of keying in on a small subset of things to do
Mike Rome: in a very thoughtful way like I've just reviewed, and then moving very fast on those ideas. And again, the reason speed matters is because of the growth flywheel that I described here and just talked about. The more tests you run, the more learnings you have, the more learnings you have, the better the test next time around, the better the test. The higher the success rates and the higher the success rates, ultimately the faster path to growth.
Mike Rome: All right, almost done here, capturing learning outside of speed is the second most important input to figuring out how to grow quickly. So
Mike Rome: I was listening to a podcast the other day with a multi-billion Dollar Company, who has, like a very strong testing motion in house, and the leader of this team was still saying that their hit rate their success rate on tests was, I think, around 28%. Okay, this is like a massively seasoned company. If anyone doesn't have resource constraints, it's them.
Mike Rome: They've got some of the most qualified people in the world. They're running a wonderful motion, and they're still only succeeding less than a 3rd of the time.
Mike Rome: And so you should have it in the back of your head that even if you scale, even if things are going well, most of the things you try are not going to work. This goes back to that early idea of just having the right expectations. Okay? And just like expecting things to be hard, expecting there to be a lot of failure. It's way easier to digest that stuff if you're like. Oh, yeah, this is what Mike said like this was coming. I like this is normal, right?
Mike Rome: But one of the reasons that capturing learning is so important is because most of the things you do aren't going to work. So you need to extract the best thing again is something working. The next best thing is extracting a learning to figure out why it didn't work. So you can go back to your backlog right? You can go back to those 50 ideas that you I scored. And you can say, did we learn anything new here that all of the sudden reprioritizes our backlog.
Mike Rome: We're changing the impact of something or our confidence level in something, or even how hard it is to get something done based on a learning of another test. And so it's really important when you execute and things fail not to have that test and that failure be in vain, and the way that you make sure it's not in vain is you capture a learning, and you commit it to memory and make sure it informs what you do next.
Mike Rome: Cool talked about this one very briefly, too. It's really hard to find things that work when you find things that work, whether it's a product feature that took you over the hump and helped you achieve product market fit, or whether it's a marketing channel or tactic double down. I see a lot of startups where they have 1, 2, 3 good things going for it. And there's this sort of this tendency to say
Mike Rome: I'm going to go replicate this success in this other thing. You know, Facebook is working for this business. So I'm going to go make Tiktok work and pinterest work. And all this stuff. And and the reality is is usually that's not true. It's really hard to make stuff work when you're digging for gold and find it. Keep digging right? The key here is
Mike Rome: in the distribution of time. So you want to spend most of your time doubling down on what's working right. That product feature that took things over the edge. How do we just like lean into it harder? Right? How do we make it? 30% better?
Mike Rome: You want to spend 80% of your time doing that. But you still want to spend a small subset of your time. Call it 20% saying, hey? This thing's going to go away right. This marketing channel is going to get more expensive. It's working wonderfully now, but we have to have this chip on our shoulder that
Mike Rome: it's not going to always work. And you want to spend a small subset of time strategically planting seeds. Now, 20% of time is not very much, but 20% of time over 12 weeks, where you're consistently allocating the 20% compounds and becomes like a pretty material thing. So that's something a lot of startups get wrong. One is they don't double down on the things that are actually great for the business, knowing that it's so hard to find those things.
Mike Rome: but you still need to have a small subset of your time. But you need to really have discipline and control for this kind of reserved for planting seeds.
Mike Rome: The last slide I have for you guys is
Mike Rome: this idea of making time to play offense. So
Mike Rome: startups are by definition, incredibly resource constrained. But you guys should know that the one resource that doesn't have to be is this idea of time to think. And I come into a lot of businesses that are moving quickly, and they're what I would describe as busy what I talked about before.
Mike Rome: But no one's really coming up for air right like no one's really has the time to kind of play offense. And this is a choice, you know. I think startups, for whatever reason I've thought a lot about this. It's like, if the thing fails and we're going 100 miles an hour, and we're just throwing everything at the wall. At least we can say we gave it everything.
Mike Rome: And I'm here to tell you guys that I think that's like very flawed a very flawed worldview on how to scale a business. What you want to do is go really hard on a small subset of things. You want to say no to a lot of things, and because you say no to a lot of things you make space to kind of come up for air and make time to think right. If you study some of the great business people right like, take like a Warren Buffett or a Charlie Munger.
Mike Rome: they spend so much time reading and thinking, and they're working all the time. But they're not doing all the time. And I think that's a really important distinction. And when I see startups that are just doing all of the time. It's usually a red flag that like they're not thinking hard enough, right? If they just sort of were working. But they were kind of working in this different capacity. Some of the time
Mike Rome: they'd be making better decisions, they'd be avoiding some of the mistakes, right? And so it's kind of the irony of startups that resources are so constrained. But there's this one resource called playing offense and time to think that doesn't have to be. And that's really a cultural decision. So anyway, that's what I got for you guys, I'm happy to
Mike Rome: riff on questions. I'll leave you with this again. Growth is optional. Again, to be clear. What I mean by that is, it's probably not optional for you guys. You're on the clock, but it really is a choice, and I think if you commit to the principles that I shared here, you're essentially making the choice that you're going to figure this out, even if you have to pivot, even if things aren't working, even if you have to pivot.
Mike Rome: If you're doing these things like being brutally honest and focused like you're going to get there.
Mike Rome: Yeah, that's what I got. And then, yeah, if you guys are interested, I talk about this stuff all the all the time on on Linkedin, too. So.
Chloe Lannert: Thanks, Mike. No problem. Double tapping. He's a really great Linkedin. Follow. Alex.
Chloe Lannert: just one second. I wanna double back to Trina's question in the chat. How should we structure a company for growth, pre and post product, market fit? Are there principles we can follow also? Can you give us some tips on how we should set up every part of the company for growth.
Mike Rome: I mean, I think in the earliest days when you're on this quest to find product market fit, I think you just. You know it's different for every company. But ultimately you want to have a large concentration of the company's time focused on like talking to users and studying the analytics around how people are using the product. Right? So in the early days, you know, you tend to have teams that
Mike Rome: maybe are a little bit more product heavy than marketing and sales heavy because you're not like by definition, really ready for marketing and sales other than like, I said.
Mike Rome: marketing to bring enough people in the door. Once you've changed something about the product based on what you've heard from customers to figure out if you fixed it or not. Right? So it's kind of a I don't think there's like a hard and fast rule. But like in the early days, you just, you just want to be maniacally focused on
Mike Rome: talking to customers, to figure out how to build a product that retains. And then over time, you still again want to be very focused on talking to customers, but you can start to layer in teams that are designed to scale this thing that you've already validated.
Trina Das: So how do you actually align the tech team towards it, like we are a deep tech company. And there's a whole tech team building tech, right? So I wanted to ask you like, How do we also like, you know, structure the tech side of the thing which is not directly linked to the sales or the growth part of it.
Mike Rome: I feel like it is like I feel like it is directly linked. I guess that's the 1st thing I would say, and I think I love just very open, transparent cultures. It's like everyone should know, this is a startup. And like, we're like.
Mike Rome: you know, trying to fly the plane as we built it. And I think a lot of it comes back to that. Culture of like growth is everyone's job. Like, if you're a deep tech company. That's kind of your secret sauce, right? That's probably where, like your moat starts. And so to me, like, just because an engineer like an incredibly talented engineer isn't like super familiar with this idea of growth, like they should be really familiar with this idea of. Like.
Mike Rome: we have to build this product in a way that's fundamentally better than what else is on the market. So we can retain people and like ultimately, if we do that, there's a place for everyone at this company. But if we can't like.
Mike Rome: if we can't like, I don't know what's gonna happen right? And so
Mike Rome: I just love this idea. I think it's really empowering that, like everyone at your company, everyone that you hire everyone that's there today, and everyone that you hire in the future
Mike Rome: should feel like they are responsible for helping scale this business. And again, they have unique skill sets right like an engineer who's got like a very deep tech background is different than a designer or potentially a marketer or a customer support person.
Mike Rome: But they all have a skill set and a role to play in growth. I go back to like the support example of, like, you know, great support. People have a direct line to product, to really quantify what they're hearing, right and prioritizing that stuff and lobbying for product to
Mike Rome: actually build the stuff. And similarly, you want a product team that like doesn't have egos, and like very much wants to hear what people are saying about the product, whether it's good or bad. So yeah, I think it starts with that idea of like, I love this quote like, you don't need a growth team. The whole company is the growth team. And if you sort of cement a culture around that idea, I think, like you're just on the path to building something very healthy, and you have a better shot at making things work.
Trina Das: Thank you, Mike. Super helpful. I'll work around that. Thank you.
Chloe Lannert: Alex, you want to jump in.
Alex Nativelle: Yeah, I just wanted to.
Alex Nativelle: So you've worked with a lot of companies. I think that would be helpful to when you were saying about, you know, stuff with 3 4
Alex Nativelle: growth tactics very thoughtfully, for like maybe 10 weeks or something. And then figure out what's working the best. Could you like walk us through like an example of a company? You've helped how they designed it, how they thought about this, and you know how they afterwards said, Okay, we are taking stock of what's happening. And we're making a decision going forward.
Mike Rome: Yeah. So I think this book traction is a really good book to read. That's a good example of this. But.
Mike Rome: A lot of the companies that I come into that are ready to scale right?
Mike Rome: Once you figure that out, a good example of this would be. You know us testing 5 customer acquisition channels at once, right? And really designing that test upfront like, what are the what are the things that we're going to measure. What does success look like? So what are sort of our ideal benchmarks around the cost to acquire, or something like that?
Mike Rome: And then actually execute, you know, going and doing research. How do we run like a minimum viable test in these paid, you know. Let's say we're looking at 4 paid acquisition channels, right? Linkedin, Facebook, Google. And you know, whatever reddit right? And so designing this test upfront and then doing research to figure out like, how do we run like a minimum viable test? And when I say, like a minimum viable test like.
Mike Rome: you don't want to half asset like you were trying to build a bike, not a car. But we're trying to build a beautiful bike. Okay? So it's it's lean. It's simple. But this way, when the test doesn't work. We can say we gave this Anony shot, and we can stop thinking about the thing right? So like customers like paid customer acquisition channels and
Mike Rome: running tests in 4 is like a great example of this and figuring out like, you know, what are the Cpms. What's the cost? Per click. What's the click through rate. What's the conversion rate? What's the ultimate cost to acquire a customer and figuring out again? Maybe you have this $100 benchmark, and none of them are close, but if one of them is 300, and one of them's 400, and the other 2 are over a thousand at least, you know, assuming you did a little bit of a research and feel good
Mike Rome: about this idea of running a minimum viable test. You can say, let's just forget about those 2, and let's try to do these 2 better. Right. All of a sudden you've halved your focus so you can go even deeper on these 2 things right? Or maybe there's some sort of learning where it's like those 2 channels that just like
Mike Rome: totally shit the bed.
Mike Rome: you know. Maybe there was another channel that you were thinking about. And you're like, we don't have to think about this anymore, like it has attributes similar to those other channels that didn't work right? So that's how I would, you know, that's like a classic example of a motion that I run with companies that are ready for scale, figuring out like different paid acquisition channels. But you know you could do the same thing with with product features as well.
Alex Nativelle: Yeah, I guess my, my thought is also like.
Alex Nativelle: for instance, if you're b 2 b like, you have different marketing channels, but that are sometimes tough to compare right? Like, if I'm cold calling someone, then I'm emailing them. Then I'm trying to optimize my website for conversion and then posting on Linkedin. That's 4 things I'm thinking about right now, you know, like how you? Because if you're paying like Google, Meta and and Linkedin, then you're like, Okay, I pay a click and a conversion. This is.
Alex Nativelle: I'm not saying this is easy, right? But I can compare that very easily.
Mike Rome: I got you. Yeah. So this goes back to, I think when you're comparing, you kind of have to bucket things. This goes back to that idea of like planting short medium and long term bets. And here's the thing like, sometimes you just don't need to overthink stuff like.
Alex Nativelle: Yeah.
Mike Rome: Content marketing works. And there's a very clear playbook for doing it like you gotta be authentic. You gotta give away a ton of value. Your stuff has to like ooze quality, and it has to be different that works. It's just a question of time, right? And and you need the time, because you got to become a better writer.
Mike Rome: It's just a flywheel that takes longer. So I would kind of. I would kind of bucket this stuff out in terms of like, okay, if we're comparing tests, they should be sort of like you should bucket things into slayer sort of like short medium and long term, and to me content is like a medium to long term play and like, it's going to work. If you actually study how people do it well, and you
Mike Rome: hang around. You hang in the game long enough to get better and to let it work. So I just wouldn't compare that to one of these shorter term tasks. Right? That's why I like the idea of comparing
Mike Rome: paid acquisition channels to other paid acquisition channels or product onboarding tactics to other product onboarding tactics right? Because they fall into these same buckets. And again, you really do. You do want to plant the seeds beyond that? So? And and you know, with with where the world's gone and where marketing's gone like, especially if you're b 2 b, too, like people we work on like half of consumer, and even a hundred dollar consumer product, like people don't buy off of one channel.
Alex Nativelle: You know, and and that's sort of like.
Mike Rome: That's like low cost consumer stuff. All of a sudden. You're getting into b 2 b, and you know the Acv is a thousand dollars or $10,000, like
Mike Rome: people are definitely not buying off an ad click right? Like it might be one component of 10 that matters in sort of a flow.
Mike Rome: But yeah, that's why it's it's kind of really important to understand. But you know again, this is all a delicate balance. Then you can get in this place of being like, oh, we're selling a $10,000 product. We just need to spray and be everywhere. What I would kind of be thinking about is like, what's the one or 2 places we need to be in the short term. And what's like the one to 2 places. We need to be in the mid and long term. So you can still focus on doing good work. You know, if you're trying to do 10 things like it's just
Mike Rome: you can't. You can't execute like hell like when you're doing 10 things people sometimes will lie to themselves and say they can. But we can't, you know most most of us can't.
Alex Nativelle: Okay, yeah, thanks. That's helpful.
Chloe Lannert: This one's real quick. What tools do you use for your own sort of Linkedin and your own like personal marketing, like, what's your stack.
Mike Rome: Gosh! I'm a
Mike Rome: I'm a little embarrassed, but I'm a little bit of like a laggard when it comes to cool stacks and stuff like that. There's all sorts of tools like to use where?
Mike Rome: you know, you could. Just you could if you just research like, you know, if you just kind of Google around, or use AI tools to like repurpose posts and stuff like that. But I
Mike Rome: I
Mike Rome: don't really use any tools I used to use like a scheduling one, where I would like write the posts on Sundays, or something like that, for the next 5, 6 days. But I take a really manual approach to this I do use like I have a I've trained an agent to help me edit and clean up posts based on some writing styles I'm into, like, there's this wonderful book called Several short sentences about writing.
Mike Rome: And so I have some cool prompts to basically like clean up my thoughts based on how I want to write or how I know you know what drives engagement on Linkedin. But that's sort of like last mile, and that's really all I use. And the reason I do this is
Mike Rome: because so if you want to write, if you want to do content marketing well, you have to figure out a motivation for doing it beyond just trying to get sales. And so for me, for example, I write, I write online because one, I'm still practicing the craft, and I'm reminding myself of the stuff that I'm talking to you about, right? Like it gets really hard when our agency we might have 10 clients at any given time.
Mike Rome: you know, if things aren't going well for 2 or 3. And people are mad and angry and email. And it's
Mike Rome: it's really easy for us to lose sight of stuff just like you guys, right? And so the biggest reason that I write is really to remind myself of the stuff that I've learned, so I can keep practicing it that day and that week. The other reason I write that, like, you know, admittedly, isn't the bigger reason. But it's like to give back a little bit.
Mike Rome: I you know, like I've had a lot of people who have been springboards for my career. And so hopefully writing some stuff save some other people some time. And so because
Mike Rome: that's because that's why I keep the habit right? I have these things. I'm not, you know. It's good for our business now, but it took 2 years for it to be like a material part of our customer acquisition strategy. I wouldn't have stayed the course in those 2 years if I didn't have like a reason to do it, and so my reason for doing it is to remind myself, and because that's the reason I'm doing it to become a better operator. I just don't like shortcut it, you know, because, like waking up every morning
Mike Rome: and writing this lesson is like a really helpful thing for me to kind of start the day.
Mike Rome: So you know, there's there's definitely other people out there where you could talk about how you automate automate all this stuff. But it's also like a very dangerous.
Mike Rome: There's probably a lot more automation opportunities that I could use, that I'm not. And maybe it's a missed opportunity. But I think, like you want to err on the side of authenticity. With all this stuff
Mike Rome: that's like one of the biggest things like, I'm so excited about AI, because I think obviously it can help us all like work faster with smaller teams, and there's never been a better time to build a company. But I also think there's just this like wild opportunity. That's like coming for authenticity, and so I've resisted a lot of that habit. But that might not be the right way to think about it. But that's maybe it's a little polarizing. But that's how I think about it.
Chloe Lannert: I love that. Thank you. I know a lot of folks are approaching Linkedin from the perspective of becoming a thought leader, just building some legitimacy without, like a giant customer, base or too much of a brand name, so that the authenticity angle is awesome.
Mike Rome: Yeah. And you don't like don't fall for the whole number of followers, like, how many impressions does a post get? I've had?
Mike Rome: I've had posts get 500,000 impressions, you know, thousands of likes and comments, and they don't drive any business. And then I've had posts, get a thousand impressions, and you know, I've maybe made $50,000 or $100,000 off of them, because we got a customer, and we said something that just like really rung true to them, you know. And so.
Mike Rome: 1st and foremost, I write to commit these things to memory, to become a better operator. Second reason I write is to give back a little bit. And the 3rd reason is to drive business. And it's funny. The stuff that really drives business is the stuff. That's lower impression. You're giving away something super valuable. But it's to like a super narrow Icp right? Ideal customer profile and ideally decision maker. It's just funny. You're always tempted to be like, oh, like.
Mike Rome: this thing's really resonating. But like, I'm really interested in the stuff that actually turns into revenue. And all of that stuff is like
Mike Rome: much tighter. Most of the market wouldn't really understand what I'm saying. It's not really relevant to them at any given time.
Mike Rome: But for one person it was really relevant, right? And it really showed. Well.
Mike Rome: these guys know what they're doing. It's different than my current solution. I want to talk to them.
Chloe Lannert: Awesome.
Mike Rome: Yeah. So you guys can hit me up anytime.
Mike Rome: I'm on like I said, I'm on Linkedin. You can also just email me at
Mike Rome: mike@moonwater.studio, or mike@lightbulb.run. So
Mike Rome: Anyway, I've worked for techstar companies in the past. I've been coming and talking at techstars for like 10 years, and it's just really cool. The 1st startup I ever worked at. I was a management consultant for a couple of years. And and then I laughed because culturally, it wasn't great fit. And the 1st startup that I worked for came out of techstars. And so, yeah, it's like. And you know, I'm really grateful for startups, because it's it's been my most of my career, and it's a really cool, full circle moment to kind of come back here and and talk. So appreciate you guys hearing me out.
Alex Nativelle: Simple.
Chloe Lannert: Thank you.
Alex Nativelle: Mike.
Mike Rome: No problem.
Chloe Lannert: She did it.
Mike Rome: Ed, are we good? Any final questions?